Juniors – Research Project

Two parts

    Paper (100 points)
    Short Presentation (10 points)

Your goal is to get your IA done so that you do not have to spend a lot of time on it next year.  It will probably be due at the beginning of September.  For the topic to be appropriate for your IA, it should be something you are interested in, it should involve math and equations or formulas, and you should be able to do mathematics within the paper to show a point, verify an outcome, or support some conclusion (this does not have to be an original thought or hypothesis).

First, you should find a mathematical topic you are interested in.  Next, write a paper about the topic (a completed IA should be about 8-12 pages long).  You will be discussing your paper in a round table discussion with the class.

Here is a topic list to get your started: http://ibmathsresources.com/2013/09/03/maths-ia-exploration-topics/

Numberphile is another good place to find ideas related to number theory: https://www.youtube.com/user/numberphile

Requirements:

    8-12 page paper on one of the topics from the list.  Your topic should involve math and equations.  You need to pick carefully because some of the topics do not lend themselves well to mathematical manipulation.
    5 minute presentation to the class (very informal, just a talk).  You should explain your topic in a way that anyone can understand.  You may want to ask your audience if they have any questions.  You may not be able to answer them, and that's okay, but those questions may be good springboards for further investigation for your IA next year.
    You should keep a list of sources.  You do not have to put your sources in any particular format, but you should be able to go back to any source you have used.  Please attach the source list to your paper.
    Paper must be completed using Google Docs.  Use this template:  Papaer Template
    Presentation is just a discussion.  No specific format required.
    Final paper must be printed out and handed in as a HARD COPY.  No electronic submissions.



Point Breakdown

    Paper -- 20 points, see grading rubric -- this will be converted to 100 points
    Presentation -- 10 points, see grading rubric

For a more extensive explanation, please read through the slide show (link below) and view included examples and rubrics:     Math IA Explanation, Rubric, and Links to Examples

Be sure to look at the grading guide before you start working on your project!  See PDFs below..
